MathExpressionConverter and MultiMathExpressionConverter (#89)
MicrosoftDocs/CommunityToolkit: docs/maui/converters/multi-math-expression-converter.md

---
title: MultiMathExpressionConverter - .NET MAUI Community Toolkit
author: VladislavAntonyuk
description: "The MultiMathExpressionConverter is a converter for multiple math expressions."
ms.date: 03/16/2022
---

# MultiMathExpressionConverter

[!INCLUDE [docs under construction](../includes/preview-note.md)]

> The `MultiMathExpressionConverter` is a converter for multiple math expressions.

Reviewer: Perhaps something like:

```suggestion
The `MultiMathExpressionConverter` is a converter that allows users to perform various math operations with multiple values through using a `MultiBinding`.
```

The `Convert` calculates the incoming expression string with multiple variables and returns a `double` result.

## Syntax

### XAML

The `MultiMathExpressionConverter` can be used as follows in XAML:

```xaml
<ContentPage xmlns="http://schemas.microsoft.com/dotnet/2021/maui"
             xmlns:x="http://schemas.microsoft.com/winfx/2009/xaml"
             xmlns:toolkit="http://schemas.microsoft.com/dotnet/2022/maui/toolkit"
             x:Class="CommunityToolkit.Maui.Sample.Pages.Converters.MultiMathExpressionConverterPage">

    <ContentPage.Resources>
        <ResourceDictionary>
            <toolkit:MultiMathExpressionConverter x:Key="MultiMathExpressionConverter" />
        </ResourceDictionary>
    </ContentPage.Resources>

    <Label HorizontalOptions="Center" >
        <Label.FormattedText>
            <FormattedString>
                <Span Text="x0 + x1 + x2 = "/>
                <Span>
                    <Span.Text>

>                         <MultiBinding Converter="{StaticResource MultiMathExpressionConverter}" ConverterParameter="x0 + x1 + x2">

Reviewer: As a reader of the documentation I would like to know some general rules around what should be provided in the `ConverterParameter` and how it applies to the `values` that are bound. For example if I supplied a 4th binding value would it have any impact? If I don't supply `x1` would it have an impact? And is there any correlation between the value and the name in the expression or could I in theory write `? + ? + ?` in the expression and it still work?

This might be better placed at the top where we explain what the converter is.

                            <Binding Path="X0" />
                            <Binding Path="X1" />
                            <Binding Path="X2" />
                        </MultiBinding>
                    </Span.Text>
                </Span>
            </FormattedString>
        </Label.FormattedText>
    </Label>

</ContentPage>
```

### C#

The `MultiMathExpressionConverter` can be used as follows in C#:

```csharp
class MultiMathExpressionConverterPage : ContentPage
{
    public MultiMathExpressionConverterPage()
    {
        var label = new Label();

		label.SetBinding(
			Label.TextProperty,
			new MultiBinding()
			{
				Converter = new MultiMathExpressionConverter(),
				ConverterParameter = "x0 + x1 + x2",
				Bindings = new List<BindingBase>()
				{
					new Binding("X0"),
					new Binding("X1"),
					new Binding("X2")
				}
			});

		Content = label;
    }
}
```

> 

Reviewer: We should add a C# Markup example, I am happy to do this

> ## Available operations

Reviewer: Perhaps we could add this to a shared include much like the `/includes/preview-note.md` file and it can be shared with the `MathExpressionConverter` page

---
title: MultiMathExpressionConverter - .NET MAUI Community Toolkit
author: VladislavAntonyuk
description: "The MultiMathExpressionConverter is a converter for multiple math expressions."

> ms.date: 03/16/2022

Reviewer 2: See other comment about date

> ms.date: 03/16/2022

Reviewer: ```suggestion
ms.date: 05/16/2022
```
